The Interview 
By 
Patrick M. Bailey 
 
 
Special thanks to C.S. Lewis, the author of The Inner Circle and many other inspirational works. 
 
 
Character Synopsis: 
 
Albert:  June’s husband.  Early 30’s, high energy.  Has a tendency to overreact.   
 
June: Early 30’s.  Thoughtful and takes problems calmly, one at a time. 
 
Bess: Late 50’s.  Has high energy, seldom uses contractions, has a high level of curiosity about others and a high level of energy as well.  “Spunk” best describes her. 
 
The scene is a bedroom.  It has a double bed, neatly made, but with a pile of clothes on it.  A dresser has all of its drawers open non-uniformly with clothes hanging over the sides of each drawer.  A phone is sitting on the night stand next to the bed with an alarm clock next to it. 
 
Albert enters from the bathroom door. Dressed in a blue three piece suit with a Paisley tie, walks over to the full length mirror down stage left.  He examines (note examines) himself.  He straightens his tie, adjusts his belt buckle to make it line up with the buttons of his shirt, turns around to look at his back in the mirror, turns back to face the mirror, opens his jacket to inspect how the lining might appear, looks at the arm pits of his shirts and sniffs a bit, closes his jacket back up.  He exits out the door stage right.  After five seconds, he re-enters, leaves the door open, walks across to the mirror, stands in front of it, puts his hand out and starts 
 
Albert:  Hello, Mr. Cronbee!  You don't know how much I've been looking forward to this interview.  (His wife, June, walks in the room.  She is holding four neatly pressed shirts on hangers - all different colors.).  Just the other day, I was thinking of calling you, and as my finger was about to touch the keypad you were calling me.  Isn’t that coincidence! So, I guess we both are... (pause)  What's that?  Oh, yes.  This early in the morning is not a problem.  As a matter of fact, I'm usually up by 5:00.  Usually, the alarm clock asks ME for five extra minutes and ...  OH CRIMENY!  WHAT IS THAT?!  (He stands staring into the mirror.) 
 
June:  Albert, what is it?  What's wrong now? 
 
Albert:  (Turns around) You don't see it? 
 
June:  See what? 
 
Albert:  My tie.  My tie!  Look at it! 
 
June:  I see it.  It matches the suit.  It's the right length. 
 
Albert:  It’s not the length.  This time really look at it.  Here's a hint.  What year are you thinking of? 
 
June: What year? 
 
Albert: Yes, what year? 
 
June:  You mean this year?  Today is June 24th, two thousand and… 
 
Albert:  I'm not asking for the date, I want to know what year comes to mind. 
 
June:  I don't know.  What year should I be thinking of? 
 
Albert:  The same year that Paisley ties went out of style. 
 
June:  What? 
 
Albert:  Paisley ties. (starts waiving his tie) Paisley ties!  You were about to let me wear a Paisley and not say anything about it? 
 
June:  Paisley ties are nice. 
 
Albert:  Sure.  Nice if you’re meeting Andy Warhol.  He’s dead you know.  Just like the style.  Just like my chances of doing well at the interview. 
 
June:  I heard Paisley ties were back in style. 
 
Albert:  Who told you that? 
 
June: I heard it from (Albert looks at her)…Well, I heard it from Ferina next door. 
 
Albert: Ferina? 
 
June: Yes.  Ferina. 
 
Albert:  You’re taking fashion advice from someone who sounds like they’re one step away from a bowl of puppy chow?
 
June:  Oh, come on, Al.  She sees what’s going on.  She sees hundreds of business people every day – bankers, lawyers… 
 
Albert:  All that from her cashier booth at the parking garage?   
 
June: Hey, it’s good work and don’t knock Ferina.   
 
Albert:  I’m not knocking Ferina – just Paisley ties. 
 
June:  Seriously, who notices? 
 
Albert:  They will for crying out loud. 
 
June:  I don't think so, Al. 
 
Albert:  Of course you don't.  You don’t have to meet those people.  They are high level people.  They want to hire people who are with it.  They see this and it'll kill the whole deal.  How’s that going to sound if I tell them “Have you no clue about fashion?  Haven’t you ever talked to Farina at the Parking Arena?” 
 
June:  Albert, that's the last suit and tie you have.  You've gone through everything. 
 
Albert:  So, this is it?   
 
June:  Just these shirts.  These are the only things that haven't been on your body over four times this morning. 
 
Albert:  Good.  One of these might work.  (Starts inspecting each one.)  As long as there are no wrinkles I guess.  
 
June:  They're all perma-press. 
 
Albert: Oh, June! 
 
June: Now what? 
 
Albert:  Geeks wear perma-press.  Do you want them to think I'm a geek? 
 
June:  Well, you're a programmer. 
 
Albert:  WAS a programmer.  I was a geek.  I stopped being a geek.  This is a management job.  Trust me, one hint of geek and that’ll end the interview.   
 
June:  All your cottons are in that pile.  
 
Albert:  Get me the iron then. I'll iron them myself. 
 
June:  Al, now stop.  They were ironed when you first got up this morning.  You haven't wrinkled them that bad.  What's wrong with them? 
 
Albert:  Image, June.  It's all about image.  It’s the details that count.  One premature wrinkle can communicate tons. 
 
June:  Premature wrinkle? 
 
Albert:  That’s right “premature wrinkle.”  Certain wrinkles aren’t supposed to show up until certain parts of the day. 
 
June:  What? 

Albert:  Don’t you pay attention to anything? Here’s the run down:  8:00 AM wrinkles can’t even be seen.  Those are the wrinkles at the bottom of your shirt you’ve tucked away in your trousers.   At 9:00 AM are the early work day wrinkles, the ones that formed on your back when sitting in the car.  11:00 AM introduces the “I-can’t-believe-what-my-boss-is-telling-me” wrinkle…. 
 
June:  What? 
 
Albert:  Those wrinkles happen when you cross your arms as you listen to a stupid idea.  You know.  Those are the wrinkles that form on the inside of your elbows and kind of scrunch up the shirt in the middle of your chest.   That’s the first test to see where you are in life. 
 
June: What? 
 
Albert: Yeah.  That’s right.  If you don’t have 11:00AM wrinkles, it means you’re the boss and you only have to come up with the stupid idea, but you don’t have to listen to it.  And the only other reason not to have an 11:00AM wrinkle by 11:00AM is because you’re sitting in a job interview where any stupid idea sounds great as long as they hire you. 
 
June:  So, 11:00AM and that’s it? 
 
Albert: (Now starts trying on different socks)  Oh, no.  It doesn’t end there.  There is the go-to-lunch wrinkle that happens as you’re pulling the tail of your shirt as you lean over the table to avoid spilling food on you, followed by re-stuffing your shirt down your pants after lunch. Finally, there is the 3:00 to 
6:00 PM wrinkles.  That’s where you’ve rolled up your sleeve to convince everyone around you that you’re not going to get licked by that stupid 11:00AM idea.  So you roll up your sleeves, loosen your tie, unbutton the top button and tug at your shirt to gain a little comfort.  Then you go home.  Then, at that point there are so many wrinkles that a wrinkle isn’t even noticed.  You go home with the full package at 7:30. 
 
June:  Okay.  So given that, just what time of day would you say describes the wrinkles you have now? 
 
Albert:  Midnight. 
 
June:  This is impossible (starts to leave) 
 
Albert: June, where are you going? 
 
June: Obviously there’s nothing I can say or do to help.  I don’t know where I’m going, but being here is just too aggravating right now… 
 
Albert:  June.  June.  Stop.  I’m sorry.  I really am.  
 
June:  Why do you need me around right now?  Just to have someone to snap at? 
 
Albert:  It’s not that. 
 
June: What?  What do you want? 

Albert:  I’m so scared, June.  You know that don’t you?  I just keep wondering what went wrong at my old job at Barnsworth. 
 
June: I know.  But you’ve got to get a little control.  I know what happened at Barnsworth was unfair to you.  It seems like you’re beating yourself up all the time and in the process you’re beating me up, too. 
 
Albert:  (sits on edge of bed) It was obvious there is something wrong with me.  
 
June:  I keep telling you.  Your parents keep telling you.  There is nothing wrong with you.  (sits on edge of bed close to the night stand.  Opens up the night stand drawer and pulls out a pair of dark rimmed glasses.)   I’m perfectly happy with the techie that I married.  (puts the dark rimmed glasses on Albert.) The one without the contact lenses. (starts to muss his hair up.)  The one who is perfect on the inside and adorable on the outside.   
 
Albert: Well, you have to say that – that’s expected of wives and parents. 
 
June:  You are fine the way you are.  Come on Albert, give me the laugh. Give me the laugh!  Start with that crazy snork-snork sound… 
 
Albert: No 
 
June: Come on…just a little?  snork?  Just a little snork?  (June starts to imitate the snork sound that would usually start the “Albert” laugh.  Albert starts to smile a bit.)  I see it coming.  Come on… (Albert and June start to laugh together and both start to break into an hysterical nerd laugh) 
 
Albert: (jumps up) What am I doing?  I’m regressing. No.  No!  That nerd is behind me… 
 
June:  Everyone keeps telling you. Even Ferina keeps telling you… 
 
Albert:  Well, everyone and Ferina didn’t get fired either!  (puts his glasses back in the dresser drawer and walks over to the mirror) And it’s that stupid laugh that probably started everything.  
 
June:  Al, Barnsworth is in the past.  It’s those jerks who should change. 
 
Albert:  (crosses back to the mirror and starts to comb his hair) I know.  I know.  But I’ve been reading how everything about a person tells a story about themselves.  Everything from how they talk, how they walk and how they dress makes them who they are, and if they just change those things they will be different people.  People will listen to you. 
 
June:  Al, you’re trying to pretend to be something you’re not. 
 
Albert:  Well, Vonnegut said we become what we pretend to be. 
 
June:  He also said you had to be careful of what you pretend. (Stands up, looking at Albert’s back)  Albert, don’t you see?  You don’t have to pretend.  I love the man who could live with an occasional wrinkle or a little coffee stain.  If you become what you pretend you might lose that part I want our baby to have. 
Albert: So you want the little lady to become a slob? 
 
June:  Stop that.  I want that little person to grow up with a heart who can look past all the wrinkles just like Dad. 
 
Albert: (Sits next to her.)  So, how is the little princess today?  (Puts his hand on her stomach.) 
 
June:  Beating away.  
 
Albert: This is why I’m afraid, June.  I don’t want to let both of you down.  I already feel I let you down because we’re down to only one bathroom. 
 
June: Al, it’s an older house.  These things happen.  Once we’re both working again, it will get fixed. 
 
Albert: What will we do if we lose the bathroom in here? 
 
June:  We haven’t yet.  So, don’t worry about it. 
 
Albert: Well even that bugs me.  I want that bathroom to be our bathroom, something only we can share. 
 
June: (Thinks about what was just said, walks up to Albert, pulls him in closely, looks at him seriously with a deep passionate expression.)  How would I ever feel let down by someone who understands porcelain romance!   
 
(Albert and June start laughing at this.  Albert starts to let out a heft nerd laugh) 
 
Albert: Now look what happened!  Nerd laugh, wrinkled collar.  God, I love you, June!  (They hug) 
 
(Doorbell rings.)   
 
June:  Who could that be? 
 
Albert: The driver possibly. 
 
June: The driver? 
 
Albert: Yeah, the owner of the company sent a limousine to drive me to the interview. 
 
June: What? 
 
Albert:  Oh, I didn’t tell you, but this is the last interview.  I couldn’t believe it myself when they said they would do this. 
 
June:  (Surprised and delighted) Al, that means they must want to hire you!  You don’t have to worry. 
 
Albert:  June, I can’t assume anything.  Would you let him in?  I’ll be out in a few….he is early. 
 
June:  Okay.  But, Al.  Just remember, you can never let me down.  I love you too much. 
 
Albert:  I know.  I know.  I trust you.  I’ll put on the Paisley.   
 
(June exits.  Albert puts on the paisley tie and takes one more look at himself in the mirror, looks down and decides to change socks again.  He pulls the full dresser drawer of socks out and starts tossing socks out.) 
 
Albert:  Black, dark blue, brown, burnt umber.  Scary night Halloween!  Not one pair that matches.  (Finally finds a pair.  Sits on the edge of the bed.  Takes off his socks and is about to put on the pair he finds.  We hear June’s voice.) 
 
June (from off stage):  It’s okay.  He’s dressed… 
 
(The driver enters.  The driver is a woman about fifty to fifty-five years old.) 
 
Driver: (walks up to Albert) Is that the bathroom? 
 
Albert: (a bit surprised and stiff)  Ahh.  Yes. 
 
Driver: Thank you.  (goes into bathroom) 
 
Albert: (trying to call out loud with a whisper) June!  June! (Runs to bathroom door, puts his ear up against it) 
 
(June enters) 
 
June: Albert, what are …. 
 
Albert: (quickly tips toe to June and still whispering) In the bathroom. 
 
June: What? 
 
Albert: There’s a woman in our bathroom. 
 
June: (Whispering like Albert) I know.  And why are we whispering. 
 
Albert: (still whispering) because (now catching himself and using a normal voice) Well, there’s a strange woman in our bathroom. 
 
June:  That’s the driver, Al. 
 
Albert: Well, what is she doing in there? 
 
June:  Couldn’t you hear?  What do you think you heard? 
 
Albert: Now knock that off.   
June:  Al, just relax.  Nature called.   
 
Albert: Right now?  Right here?   
 
June: Al, now just hold it. 
 
Albert:  Me? Couldn’t she? I’ve got to get back into that bathroom. 
 
June: What? (flushing is heard) 
 
Albert: I’ve got things I have to do. 
 
June: It can wait a little.  What kind of things do you still have to do? 
 
Albert: I have my man things to do.  You wouldn’t understand. 
 
(The driver comes out.) 
 
Driver:  Thank you. Sorry about that.  I did not mean to interfere with your… what did you call it? 
 
(Albert looks a bit shocked) 
 
June: Your man things, Al. 
 
Albert: This is embarrassing.  (Goes into the bathroom) 
 
(June starts to laugh.) 
 
Driver: Really, I am sorry.  It looks like my timing was bad and he seems a bit upset.  I am twenty minutes early, so I will wait out in the car. 
 
June: You’re fine.  It’s not you.  It’s Albert.  He’s usually not like this. 
 
Driver: He does not normally do men things?  (they both laugh) 
 
June:  As the saying goes, “he’s just a man.”  Come to the kitchen and I’ll pour you some coffee.  
 
(They pause as they are about to leave when they hear Albert from the bathroom) 
 
Albert: Ha!  Ha!  Ha!  Ha! 
 
Driver: Are those some of his men things? 
 
June: (laughing some more and we hear Albert starting to go through the scales for a voice warm up) Al is always concerned about his voice sounding clear.  He originally went to school to be an actor, so he likes to warm his voice up at the start of the day.  He feels he sounds better. 
 
Driver:  So, he is an actor? 
 
June:  Oh, no.  He gave that up in college. 
 
Driver:  He did?  Did he realize it was not his gift? 
 
June:  No.  It was his first love.  Still is actually.   
 
Driver: Oh? 
 
June:  Well, it’s been a while since he did any community theater.  He’s been putting everything into his job. 
 
Driver: Oh?  Everything? 
 
June:  Absolutely. 
 
Driver:  He must love his work. 
 
June:  Yes.  He tries to.  He really does. 
 
Driver: I guess I do not understand.  He tries to love his job? 
 
Albert: (coming from the bathroom in a blue suit, beige shirt and the paisley tie) Okay. I think this time I’ve got it. (stands in front of mirror). 
 
June: Al, that’s the suit you had on… 
 
Albert: June, shhh.  I’m thinking of what this will look like the first time someone sees me.  (pauses.  closes his eyes. turns around towards mirror and opens his eyes and extends his hands)  Hello, Mr. Cronbee!  You don't know how much I've been looking forward to this interview.  (studies himself for a moment, turns to June)  I think this is it, June.  What do you think? 
 
June:  I like it. 
 
Albert: You sure? 
 
June: Yes. 
 
Albert: You’re absolutely sure?  
 
June:  I like it now and I liked it an hour ago. 
 
Albert:  What? 
 
June: That was the first thing you put on this morning. 
 
Albert:  Nuts!  There must have been some reason I didn’t like it (starts to review himself in the mirror) Driver: You should have gone with your first instinct.  
 
Albert: What do you mean? 
 
Driver: You should have trusted your first decision.  Mr. Cronbee owns a suit just like that. 
 
Albert: He does?  You’ve seen him before? 
 
Driver:  I am his fulltime driver.  I see him every morning and throughout the day. 
 
Albert: You do? 
 
Driver: Yes, I do. 
 
June: You see, Albert.  Trust yourself.  You’ll do fine. 
 
Albert: Okay.  That’s it then.  The blue suit it is.  Thank you, uhmmm…what is your name? 
 
Driver: Mr. Cronbee calls me Bess. 
 
Albert: Thank you, Bess. I know it’s silly, but I’m really trying to make a good first impression. 
 
Driver: Think nothing of it.  I understand.  Of course, I have to hand it to you.  You certainly do not leave any stone unturned, (starts to look at the bed) or trousers, or pair of socks or underwear. 
 
June:  Well, there’s still time for a cup of coffee, Bess.  Al, would you  like to join us? 
 
Albert: No.  I just want to sit here and get my head beyond clothes. (sits on the edge of the bed).   
 
Driver: Are you nervous? 
 
Albert: Nervous doesn’t describe it. 
 
Driver:  Well if it helps to know, I’ve overheard many of the interviews. 
 
Albert:  You have?  
 
Driver: Oh, yes. 
 
Albert:  So, you know some of the questions Mr. Cronbee would ask. 
 
Driver:  More than you want to know. 
 
Albert:  But… 
 
Driver:  But? 
 
Albert:  Aargh.  This is agonizing.  Asking you to tell me would be like cheating. 
 
Driver: What is wrong with a little insider trading? 
 
Albert:  Ouch!  I appreciate it, but…it’s the idea of “inside information” that got me in trouble at my last job. 
 
Driver:  That sounds interesting! 
 
June:  Al, that wasn’t your fault. 
 
Driver:  Did I hit a nerve?  I am sorry if I have.  I should probably excuse myself and return to the limousine. 
 
June:  You’re fine.  As a matter of fact, maybe this is what has been bothering him so much. 
 
Driver: Bothering him? 
 
Albert: June, okay.  I think we’ve discussed this enough. 
 
June: No we haven’t, Al. 
 
Albert: What more is there to say? 
 
June: Your side of the story.  You know what you did was the right thing to do.  Just learn to tell yourself that. 
 
Driver: It sounds like I really should excuse myself now. 
 
June:  No, please don’t.  Al, you need to deal with this.  Pretend Bess is Mr. Cronbee.  Explain it to her. 
 
Albert:  I don’t know.  That would be throwing way too much on her shoulders. 
 
Driver:  I do have big shoulders.  (in a kidding manner) Besides, I am a busy body too!  Say, I have an idea. 
 
Albert:  Yes? 
 
Driver:  It might be interesting if I pretend to be Mr. Cronbee and ask you many of the same questions he would ask. 
 
Albert: I’m nervous enough.  I don’t know if I could go through the same interview twice. 
 
Driver:  Come on.  People pay lots of money to professional coaches to do the same thing. 
 
June:  She does have a point, Al.   
 
Albert:  What if Mr. Cronbee ever found out you “coached” me.  He would think I was a cheat. 
Driver:  He would not.  Trust me.   
 
Albert: (Looks at June who gives him a reassuring nod.) Well, who am I to question fate? 
 
Driver: Good.  (turns to June) Now, June…I can call you June? 
 
June: Of course. 
 
Driver:  Maybe you should get that cup of coffee while I make Al even more nervous (smiles). 
 
June: Of course.  It will only take a little while to brew. 
 
Driver:  Take your time.   We’ve got work to do! 
 
 (June exits) 
 
Driver: (turns to Al and starts to pace back and forth across the room) Now, where shall we start?  I know.  Give me a handshake as if you are seeing me the first time.   
 
Albert: Sure.  Hi, Bess… 
 
Driver:  No.  Pretend I am Mr. Cronbee. 
 
Albert: Oh, of course.  How stupid of me.  (pauses to put himself into character) Hello, Mr. Cronbee, how are you?  (pauses and awkwardly holds out his hand) You don't know how much I've been looking forward to this interview. Just the other day, I was thinking of calling you, and as my finger was about to touch the keypad you were calling me.  Isn’t that a coincidence! So, I guess we both are... 
 
Driver: (walks past Al to the other side of the room) No, that will not do at all.  You look like a robot.  Have you been rehearsing this? You will give Mr. Cronbee the willies.   
 
(Albert looks puzzled) 
 
Driver:  We will work on that later.  For now just sit down.  We shall work on basic openers.  Are you ready for the first question? 
 
Albert:  Yes.  I’m ready.  Go ahead.  You’re pretending to be Mr. Cronbee, right? 
 
Driver: Right.  Ready? 
 
Albert:  Go ahead. 
 
Driver:  (takes on the persona of Mr. Cronbee) So, Albert.  I’m looking for someone who can … (Bess changes back to her normal voice) Excuse me.  Would you tell me the position you’re hoping to get? 
 
Albert:  I’m hoping to be a Director of information technology…again. 
 
Driver:  Very good.  I shall be Mr. Cronbee again.  (takes on the persona of Mr. Cronbee) Yes, I want you to lead our information technology area and work with the executive team.  Do you think you can do that while drinking apple juice through your nose? 
 
Albert: Of course I … apple juice through my nose?! 
 
Driver:  (Bess changes back to her normal voice)  Oh, yes.  Be ready for that.  Mr. Cronbee likes to see how people react to that.   
 
Albert:  Is it a joke? 
 
Driver: No that is just a Mr. Cronbee question.  Ready for another one? 
 
Albert: I guess so.  Go ahead. 
 
Driver:  (takes on the persona of Mr. Cronbee)  Well given you are not sure you can handle the apple juice.  What would you do if I came up to you one day and said you had to let half of your employees go? 
 
Albert: I would ask “why?” 
 
Driver:  You find it difficult to follow orders? 
 
Albert: Of course I can follow orders, but I… 
 
Driver: Then what would you do if I asked you to dance with the cows? 
 
Albert:  What? 
 
Driver:  (Still has Mr. Cronbee persona ) I’m trying to see if you can follow orders. 
 
Albert:  Oh, come on.  Cronbee wouldn’t ask that, would he? He sounds like Groucho Marx.
 
Driver:  I am serious.  He wants to see how you react.  He wants to see if you’re willing to play the game. 
 
Albert:  What game? 
 
Driver:  You know the game.  You have to pretend you are something you are not to keep someone happy. 
 
Albert:  What about the job?  Doesn’t he ask questions about the job? 
 
Driver:  You must agree.  That is the foundation to any job.  You have to pretend be something you are not for at least eight hours a day.  Right? 
 
Albert:  I don’t want that to happen.  Not any more at least.  Not after my last job. 
 
Driver: (Bess maintains her own voice) No?  Please, tell me about your last job.   
 
Albert:  I was just promoted to the information technology director in my last company. 
 
Driver:  Did you like your job? 
 
Albert:  I was good at it. 
 
Driver:  But did you like your job? 
 
Albert:  I was really good at it.  I’m one of the best. 
 
Driver:  Really.  Then, why are you looking for a job now? 
 
Albert: Because… Hey!  Are you asking me as Mr. Cronbee? 
 
Driver:  In a way, yes.  Of course, he would ask it differently. 
 
Albert:  How would that be? 
 
Driver:  (takes on the persona of Mr. Cronbee) What do you really want to be when you grow up? 
 
Albert: Oh, come on. 
 
Driver:  (takes on her own voice) I am serious.  He wants to know your dreams, your aspirations.  Tell me.  What do you do when you are not working with technology? 
 
Albert:  All I do is work with technology. 
 
Driver:  That is all? 
 
Albert:  Yes. 
 
Driver:  Do you have any hobbies? 
 
Albert:   I usually don’t have time for any. 
 
Driver:  You must like something other than work.  Model planes? 
 
Albert:  No. 
 
Driver:  Sports. 
 
Albert:  Nothing really regular. 
 
Driver:  Anything artistic? 
 
Albert: Can’t draw. 
 
Driver: Dancing? 
 
Albert: My partners would be better off with those dancing cows you mentioned. 
 
Driver: How about acting? 
 
Albert: You don’t think I’m being sincere? 
 
Driver:  I know you are very sincere. 
 
Albert: What made you ask a question like that? 
 
Driver:  I confess.  Your wife told me about your background while you were out of the room. 
 
Albert:  What?  She shouldn’t have. 
 
Driver:  What is wrong that she did? 
 
Albert:  (smiles – realizes she is back in her Bess persona) That’s right.  You’re not Mr. Cronbee.  It’s okay for you to know I guess. 
 
Driver:  Is it a dark secret? 
 
Albert:  No.  Not really. 
 
Driver:  Then why would you hide it? 
 
Albert: Are you asking as Mr. Cronbee or as Bess? 
 
Driver: Maybe a little of both. 
 
Albert: Bess, I don’t want Mr. Cronbee to know.  Not right away at least. 
 
Driver: Why? 
 
Albert: I’ve had a history of employers who frown on it.  They’re concerned I’ll be distracted and have too many conflicts.   
 
Driver:  Conflicts? 
 
Albert:  I can see it from their viewpoint.  There are rehearsals and when performance dates are set they can’t be changed.  The whole thing about dates created some problems when I was a consultant because people don’t like to hear “I can’t travel this weekend because I’m in a play.” 
 
Driver:  And that frustrates you? 
 
Albert: More than anyone would know.  How do you think Mr. Cronbee would react? 
 
Driver:  Oh, yes.  I am sorry.  We’re doing an interview.   Okay, knowing what I know now, I shall ask it the way Mr. Cronbee would ask.  (Changes voice to impersonate Mr. Cronbee)  Now see here, Albert. I can appreciate outside interests, but we need a one hundred percent commitment from you.  Will we get that? 
 
Albert: Oh, absolutely! 
 
Driver: (Still impersonating Mr. Cronbee, but begins to take on a more playful tone) I have always been concerned about actors.  I never know if they are being themselves. 
 
Albert:  I don’t know what to say to that. 
 
Driver:  For instance, how will I know you are telling me the truth? 
 
Albert:  Oh, I always hold up my right hand when I’m telling the truth? 
 
Driver:  And what do you do when you are not telling the truth? 
 
Albert:  Then, I jump up and down on one leg? 
 
Driver: And when you are fibbing? 
 
Albert: You’ll see me give myself a snuggie! 
 
Driver: (Changes back to her own persona and is laughing)  This should be an interesting interview!  
(Takes on Mr. Cronbee’s persona again, but again, being more playful.) Will you be passionately in love with this job? 
 
Albert: (Jumping on one leg) I’ll jump up and cheer each morning. 
 
Driver:  Are you serious? 
 
Albert: (gives himself a snuggie) Never more serious. 
 
Driver: (laughing as Bess) You would not give Mr. Cronbee a snuggie would you? 
 
Albert: (holds up his right hand) Of course I would. 
 
Driver:  (returns to her normal voice) That will liven things up! I am just trying to picture that! (they both laugh.)  So did you do a lot of jumping at your previous job? 
 
Albert: (gets more serious) I probably did.  I probably did.  (pause)  Then, one day, I raised my right hand and I was fired.  Maybe I jumped too high, and that was all they ever expected until the one day I raised my right hand. 
 
Driver:  What made you jump? 
 
Albert: Like anything, I wanted some security for June.  Especially when I found out four months ago she was pregnant. 
 
Driver:  Is this your first?  Boy or a girl? 
 
Albert:  It is our first. We’re very excited about it.  We found out last week it will be a girl. 
 
Driver:  Anyway, I mean what was it that made you think you should have been jumping? 
 
Albert:  A lot of little things.  It started with modifying software to pad the customer bills.  “Think of it as a built-in-bill for overhead,” they would say.  I would convince myself they were right.  After a while, the real problem of living a lie is that you don’t know you’re lying.  
 
Driver:  And so the actor took over?  You were playing the role? 
 
Albert:  Just the opposite. 
 
Driver:  What?  That seems contrary.  I always thought actors were pretend artists. 
 
Albert:  One evening, out of nostalgia and to remind myself of the beauty of acting, I pulled out one of my old text books based on Stanislavsky’s work.  
 
Driver: Stanislavsky? 
 
Albert:  He was one of the first to describe the process to recall emotions, recall what made you laugh, what made you cry so you could bring that to the stage. 
 
Driver:  To fake people out? 
 
Albert: No, not at all.  And this is the part where the actor in me found a conflict…Stansilavsky said to bring truth to the stage.  You can only do that by answering an important question. 
 
Driver:  What is that question? 
 
Albert: “What would I do if I was the character under these given circumstances?” 
 
Driver:  That is a very powerful question. 
 
Albert: Yes.  Absolutely.  Powerful enough to lose me a job. 
 
Driver:  Please.  Explain. 
 
Albert:  About five weeks ago, I was brought into a meeting with the big whigs.  The chief finance officer started with “Al, we want you to know that we think of you as one of us.”  I was pretty thrilled to know that.  I thought I was finally an inside-guy. 
 
Driver:  That sounds like a good thing. 
 
Albert:  You would think.  And then they told me about their plan.  They were going to consolidate several of the factories into a single one and move everything overseas.  If they were going to do that, that also meant they had to have their information technology systems ready for the change.  To make a long story short, I asked when they would let the factory workers know.  They weren’t going to tell them.  You would think they would have to, but there was no union involved, and they found loop holes in the laws to keep them from doing so.  I went home that night.  I should have been jumping on one leg all the way to the parking lot and giving myself a perpetual snuggie as I saw a line workers coming off their shift.  Many of them I know.  God, I felt awful.  I went to picnics with them, met their families.  And all I could say “great day isn’t it?”  (starts to cry)  I said the same thing to our neighbor, Ferina, when I got home.  “Great day isn’t it,” I said.  She didn’t say anything.  She gave me a look that said she knew the words weren’t matching what was on my mind.   
 
Driver:  So, what happened? 
 
Albert:  Like I said, after my moment of nostalgia, I thought about who I was?  Where is the truth?  Call it a Polonious moment.  I realized the problem was that I wasn’t reacting in that given situation.  I was just letting things roll by.  So, the next morning, I wrote an email to all the executives recommending that they let people know what was going to happen. 
 
Driver:  I take it they did not agree. 
 
Albert:  They never said they didn’t, but they did send a security guard to my desk within an hour.  As he escorted me to the door, I saw a consultant we usually worked with head into my cubicle.  Two days later, they closed down operations.  Apparently, a lot had already been accomplished before I was “one of them.” 
 
Driver: And you blame yourself? 
 
Albert:  Yes.  Yes.  Yes, I do. 
 
Driver:  That was beyond your control. 
 
Albert:  Maybe they were right? 
 
Driver:  They? 
 
Albert:  All those people who were let go.  I knew a lot of them.  When I first started, I would fix a lot of the system problems that made their jobs difficult.  I’d listen to their ideas of how to make things better with the software. 
 
Driver:  Factory workers can make better software? 
 
Albert:  Actually, yes.  They know what it should do.  That’s the tough part to figure out.  They would tell me, and we would make it happen.   The best days were the ones where I would be on the factory floor and during the breaks we would talk.  They had some incredible ideas.  We created together. 
 
Driver:  Funny, with what your wife told me, I thought you were a frustrated artist in the wrong line of work. 
 
Albert:  Why would you think that? 
 
Driver: She said acting was your first love? 
 
Albert: It is, always will be.  But it doesn’t mean it’s the only thing I enjoy.  I fell into programming by accident.  I took a class in college because I needed an elective.  Weird.  I found out I liked it, I could do it.  I enjoyed it.  And I could make a pretty good living at it. 
 
Driver: But you may have given up a very promising career. 
 
Albert:  There are a lot of starving actors.  But I had something every actor wants and lives for. 
 
Driver:  What is that? 
 
Albert: People who appreciated my work.  Those factory workers - they really did.  That’s why it hurts now.  When I see them now, they give me the thousand foot stare.  I let them down. 
 
(June walks in) 
 
June:  The coffee is ready. 
 
Albert:  Thanks, June.  Sounds good.  A quick cup might help at the interview. 
 
Driver:  Wait.  I have to know.  How did you let them down?  You have told me this much.  Please.  I must hear this, and I’m talking as Bess, not Mr. Cronbee. 
 
Albert:  Don’t you see?  I am a geek.  I mean I was a geek.  I was a big time geek!  I loved to make technology work. 
 
Driver:  I do not understand the problem. 
 
Albert:  The executives only saw me as a geek.  I couldn’t fit in with them.  Maybe if I could have I would have had some influence.  Maybe I would have known earlier what was about to happen.  Three days after the plant was closed down, I was waiting in the grocery line.  I turned around and saw Charley Munn.  He was a third shift supervisor.  He spent his whole life in that factory.  He saw me, and I thought he was going to another line.  I offered him the spot ahead of me since he didn’t have much and because I saw the other line was about to close because the clerk was going on break.  Charley was usually so jovial.  This time, he just looked at me.  He wasn’t angry.  It was worse.  There was no emotion.  He only said “I wish you could have looked out for us like that before.”  At that moment, I knew.  I knew there must have been something about me that kept me from being really in the know.  The executives thought I was too geeky to part of any other discussion.  Maybe I could have influenced them to have done something different. 
 
June:  I keep telling him, nothing is further from the truth.  I’ve talked to Charley and he knows it’s not your fault.  He is only discouraged like the rest. 
 
Albert:  All I know is that I don’t ever want to let something like that happen again.  I need to play the game better.  I need to be a better actor than I thought I was. 
 
Driver:  Then you are about to be in for another let down or you will need to get ready for the performance of a lifetime. 
 
Albert:  What? 
 
Driver:  What if I were to tell you that the reason Mr. Cronbee wants to hire you is to do the same thing.  Help move everything overseas? 
 
June:  Oh no!  This is terrible! 
 
Albert:  You’re not serious are you? 
 
Driver:  I am just a driver, but I do hear things. 
 
Albert:  June, what should I do? 
 
June:  What do you think you should do? 
 
Albert:  Maybe just go to the interview and just do what it takes to get the job.  
 
June:  In your heart, do you really think you can change things? 
 
Albert: June, you know we need that job.  The little princess is going to need a Dad who can earn a living. 
 
June:  Al, she just needs a good Dad.  A really good Dad. 
 
Albert: (to driver) Maybe I could call him?  What do you think? 
 
Driver: Knowing him, I think he would be okay with it.  (Holds up her cell phone.)  Hold on, I shall dial to his direct line. (pause)  Yes, it is me.  Yes, I am still at Albert’s.  We are still on schedule, but he had a question I think you could answer. 
 
Albert: (takes phone from driver.  Looks at June and driver who both nod for him to ask the question)  Mr. Cronbee?  Sir, I just had to ask a quick question.  Thank you.  What I’d like to know is, is your company planning on moving everything overseas?  It’s a long story, but I …. (very long pause).  Uh, huh.  I see.  I guess you will have to do what you need to do.  (pause)  Yes.  I would find it difficult to accept the position if that were the case.  No.  I really couldn’t.  I do appreciate your honesty.  Thank you. 
 
June: Well? 
 
Albert:  You were right, June.  It was already decided that I would be hired, but what Bess said is true.  He does want to outsource everything.  He said the only thing holding him up is one person in the company.  I guess (takes his sports coat off, pulls his shirt tail out, ruffles his hair, goes to the dresser, pulls out the glasses and puts them on.) our little princess may have to go without a few things.  Do you think he can live with this? 
 
June:  The little princess will be just fine. 
 
Albert:  Bess, thank you. 
 
Driver:  Thank you? 
 
Albert: Thank you for being Mr. Cronbee.  Somehow, just saying everything made me realize the truth to a few things (raises his right hand and gives out his nerdy laugh.)  I guess happiness has its own quirky way of saying “hellooooo.  Time to wake up and move on!” 
 
Driver:  (raises her right hand) I think you will do just fine.  So, it appears I shall leave without a passenger.  I shall see myself out the door.  
 
June:  Thank you, Bess. 
 
Driver:  No. I must thank you.  It is refreshing to know there are still people with your sort of courage.   
 
Albert:  Courage? 
 
Driver: Yes. Courage in every sense of the word.  (to Albert) My friend, I can see your little princess will have a noble knight for a father.  (crosses to door) My best wishes to all three of you!  (exits) 
 
Albert:  So, what do you think?  Any regrets about this decision? 
 
June:  No.   
 
Albert:  Sure? 
 
June:  Just think.  Some day you can say to your daughter “above all else, to thine own self be true” and it will have meaning. 
 
Albert: June, I love you! 
 
(cell phone rings) 
 
Albert: Hello.  Bess?  Yes.  Sure, I can do that. 
 
June: What? 
 
Albert:  She told me to look out the window?  (into cell phone)  Yes.  I do see you with that gentleman.  He is?  You are?  You did?  You were?  Yes!  Yes!  YES!  ABSOLUTELY, YES!  I’ll be there first thing tomorrow morning. 
 
June: What? What? What is it?  They’re driving off.  What happened? 
 
Albert:  You saw that man standing next to her? 
 
June:  Yes. 
 
Albert:  That WAS Mr. Cronbee.  He was in the limousine all this time.  I recognized him from a picture.  It’s true, he wants to move everything overseas, but Mrs. Cronbee doesn’t.  Mr. Cronbee works for Mrs. Cronbee.  Mrs Cronbee won’t let them move anything overseas. 
 
June:  So? 
 
Albert:  Mrs. Cronbee’s full name is Mrs. Elizabeth Cronbee.  Get it?  Elizabeth?  Bess?  Mrs. Bess Cronbee! 
 
June:  Oh my goodness!  What does that mean? 
 
Albert:  That means she wants me to start.  She said she pretty much made up her mind before she walked in the door and when she met me one thing cinched it. 
 
June:  What happened before she walked in? 
 
Albert:  Guess who owns the parking lot where Farina works and sees Farina every day? 
 
June: No. 
 
Albert:  As she drove up, she saw Farina just as Farina was leaving for work.  She connected the dots and asked about me.  I’ll never doubt you again. 
 
June: And what cinched it? 
 
Albert:  Mrs. Cronbee likes Paisley ties! 


 
 
©2011, All Rights Reserved, Patrick M. Bailey 	 	 	The Interview 	 	 	 	 	1 
 

 
 
©2011, All Rights Reserved, Patrick M. Bailey 	 	 	The Interview 	 	 	 	 	14 
 

 
 
©2011, All Rights Reserved, Patrick M. Bailey 	 	 	The Interview 	 	 	 	 	1 
 

